//[sceneview](../../../index.md)/[com.google.flatbuffers](../index.md)/[FlatBufferBuilder](index.md)/[startObject](start-object.md)

# startObject

[androidJvm]\
open fun [startObject](start-object.md)(numfields: [Int](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-int/index.html))

Start encoding a new object in the buffer. Users will not usually need to call this directly. The `FlatBuffers` compiler will generate helper methods that call this method internally. 

 For example, using the "Monster" code found on the "landing page". An object of type `Monster` can be created using the following code: 

int testArrayOfString = Monster.createTestarrayofstringVector(fbb, new int[] {
  fbb.createString("test1"),
  fbb.createString("test2")
});

Monster.startMonster(fbb);
Monster.addPos(fbb, Vec3.createVec3(fbb, 1.0f, 2.0f, 3.0f, 3.0,
  Color.Green, (short)5, (byte)6));
Monster.addHp(fbb, (short)80);
Monster.addName(fbb, str);
Monster.addInventory(fbb, inv);
Monster.addTestType(fbb, (byte)Any.Monster);
Monster.addTest(fbb, mon2);
Monster.addTest4(fbb, test4);
Monster.addTestarrayofstring(fbb, testArrayOfString);
int mon = Monster.endMonster(fbb);

 Here: 

- The call to `Monster#startMonster(FlatBufferBuilder)` will call this method with the right number of fields set.
- `Monster#endMonster(FlatBufferBuilder)` will ensure [endObject](end-object.md) is called.

 It's not recommended to call this method directly. If it's called manually, you must ensure to audit all calls to it whenever fields are added or removed from your schema. This is automatically done by the code generated by the `FlatBuffers` compiler.

## Parameters

androidJvm

| | |
|---|---|
| numfields | The number of fields found in this object. |
